---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/002981.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/h/hal/002981.html

oldid: 002981

title: HALVORSON, Christian

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 2981
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - H 
  - HAL

previous:
  title: HALVORSON, Christian
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/002980.html  
next:
  title: HALVORSON, Christopher
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/002982.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co D. Residence: New Lisbon, Juneau County, Wisconsin. Born in Norway. Civil War: Farmer. Age 22. Unmarried. Brown eyes, dark hair, light complexion, 5&#146;9&frac14;&#148;. Enlisted for three years on 4 Nov 1861 at New Lisbon, and mustered at Madison, Wisconsin, on 8 Dec 1861. Private. Fought at Mississippi River No. 10 and at Perryville, Kentucky. Promoted to Corporal. Helped guard the baggage train on 18 Oct 1862. Wounded at Stone&#39;s River, Tennessee, 31 Dec 1862 and sent to hospital in Nashville, Tennessee. Fought at Chickamauga, Georgia. Transferred to Indiana 16th Infantry on 1 Feb 1864. Came back to the 15th Wisconsin and to his previous company at Strawberry Plains, Virginia. Wounded severely by a musket ball through his right arm at New Hope Church, Georgia, 27 May 1864 and sent to hospital in Louisville, Kentucky, and from there to Jefferson Barracks, St. Louis, Missouri. Discharged from the service because of his wounds on 2 Nov 1864. Entered on the Roll of Honor of the 2nd Brigade, 1st Division, 20th Army Corps. Post war: Granted a pension of $16 a month because of the wound to his right arm. He was living in Strong&#146;s Prairie, Adams County, at that time. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 boxes 76-6, 78-3; red book vol 20 p 56) (Buslett p442) (Ulvestad p263) (Ager p301) (&#147;Pensioners on the Roll as of January 1, 1883 (living in Wisconsin)&#148;, Park Genealogical Books, Roseville, Minnesota, publ. 1998.) [Rootsweb.com](http://Rootsweb.com/). s.c.[meerker@distaff.net](mailto:meerker@distaff.net)) &#147;Halvorsen, Christian&#148;