---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/g/gri/002579.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/g/gri/002579.html

oldid: 002579

title: GRINAGER, Mons

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 2579
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - G 
  - GRI

previous:
  title: GRINAGER, Anders J.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/g/gri/002578.html  
next:
  title: GRINDE, Martin
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/g/gri/002580.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co K. Residence: Bath township, Freeborn County, Minnesota. Born on Grinager Farm, Tingelstad Parish, Hadeland, Norway, on 7 Oct 1832, to Hans Pedersen Grinager and his wife Marthe. He came to America from Brandbu, Hadeland, in 1853 and worked on a farm owned by an American. He later went to Decorah, Winneshiek County Iowa, where he worked in a mercantile business for about three years. In 1859, he moved to Freeborn County and became a farmer. He married Anna Egge, daughter of Anders Egge, on 7 Jun 1856. Civil War: Age 29. Grinager volunteered and was commissioned a Captain at Madison, Wisconsin, on 30 Jan 1862. He organized Company K, enrolling men from Manchester, Hartland, Bath and Freeborn townships of Freeborn County. He was mustered at Madison on 11 Feb 1862. In the battle of Stone&#146;s River, Tennessee, his company had been scattered by enemy fire. He was wounded in a leg but stayed to put his company in order before seeking medical aid. He was sent to a hospital in nearby Murfreesboro, which was the next day overrun by enemy soldiers. Grinager remained their prisoner for five days until the Confederate troops were forced to flee. He avoided being taken away with the other prisoners by crawling into an out-of-the-way hiding place. On sick leave for 20 days, 23 Jan 1863. Worked as a recruiter in November 1863. Mustered out with K Company, 10 Feb 1865, at Chattanooga, Tennessee. Post war: He returned to farming in Freeborn County, where he became well-to-do, owning several farms. He also became a banker. A veteran by this name, living in Worthington, Nobles County, Minnesota, was granted a pension of $15 a month because of a wound to his left leg. He died in 1889 in Minneapolis. His wife, Anne Egge, died about 1910. One son, Alexander Grinager, became known for his oil paintings. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-12; red book vol 20 p140) (Buslett p614 photo) (Ulvestad p253) (Ager p190 photo; p316) (&quot;History of the Scandinavians in the United States&quot;, by O. N. Nelson. Publ. Minneapolis, 1893. p410) (FCHS) (Lonn) (Pensioners on the Roll as of January 1, 1883, living in Minnesota, publ. 1994, Park Genealogical Books, Brooklyn Park, Minnesota) (Quiner p 626) &#147;Greenager, Mons&#148;