---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/w/wul/011221.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/w/wul/011221.html

oldid: 011221

title: WULFSBERG, Einar

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 11221
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - W 
  - WUL

previous:
  title: WROLSTAD, Lars Jorgensen
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/w/wro/011220.html  
next:
  title: YESSER, George
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/y/yes/011222.html   
---
MA Hv Arty 2nd Reg Co G. Born &#147;Frantz Einar Wulfsberg&#148; in Drammen, Norway, on 21 Dec 1841. He was a son of Jacob Wulfsberg and Manzine Margrethe Seeberg. Einar came to America on 4 Jul 1862, to Madison, Wisconsin, where he worked as a typesetter for the Norwegian paper &quot;Emigranten&quot;. Civil War: Printer. Age 22. 5&#146;8&#148;. Enlisted for three years on 5 Aug 1864 at Concord, Massachusetts. Mustered at Readville, Massachusetts. Enlistment bounty $300. Assigned to Company G, which became known as &#147;The Lapskaus Company&#148;, and joined that company on 25 Aug 1864. Private. Contracted ague near Kingston, North Carolina, in 1864. He got yellow fever the following summer. Appointed Corporal on 17 Jan 1865 at New Bern, North Carolina. Appointed Sergeant at Smithfield, North Carolina, on 21 Jul 1865. Discharged from the service 3 Sep 1865 at Smithfield. Post war: He took the name &#147;Frantz Einar&#148;, and returned to Madison. He went to Concordia Seminary in St. Louis, Missouri, and later became a pastor in Freeborn County, Minnesota, in the Norwegian Synod. Married Christiane Didrikka Hoff on 23 Sep 1868. He died in Hamline, Minnesota, in 1906 and is buried in Oakland Cemetery in St. Paul. Sources: (&#147;Memoirs of Father&#39;s and Mother&#39;s Pioneer Life in Freeborn County, Minnesota&#148; by Dikka Wulfsberg Hove and Caia Wulfsberg Thoen. Printed privately, 1907) (&#147;The Wulfsberg Family in America&#148;, by members of the Wulfsberg Families, Denver, Colorado, 1985, p 58) (Ulvestad p340) (letter, Claire H. Boyd, Chicago, Illinois)