---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/f/fri/002364.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/f/fri/002364.html

oldid: 002364

title: FRIIS, Hans

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 2364
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - F 
  - FRI

previous:
  title: FRETHEIM, John Hermansen
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/f/fre/002363.html  
next:
  title: FRISSTAD, Abraham
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/f/fri/002365.html   
---
PA 61st Inf Co A. Born 1 Dec (or 14 Dec) 1809 near Farsund, Vest Agder, Norway, son of Jeremias Frederick Friis and Oedel Bergithe Hansdattet. Worked as a sailor on ship &quot;Enigheden&quot;, carrying emigrants to America. Made nine trips on various ships, eventually becoming Captain of the &quot;Tricolor&quot; in 1846. On 30 Jul 1847, he entered America at New York, after sailing 86 days from Christiania, Norway. He went to Milwaukee where he became Captain of the ship &quot;North Cape&quot; on the Great Lakes. Married in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to Bertha Andrea Abrahamson on 4 Jul 1852. Moved to Muskego, Wisconsin, in 1854 and to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1863. Civil War: On 1 Sep 1863, he enlisted in a Pennsylvania regiment, to serve three years. Private. He was severely wounded in the battle of Petersburg, a bullet through his right shoulder. He was discharged from the service 8 Jun 1865 for disability. He was then 53 years old. His discharge paper describes him as 5&#39; 8&quot;, fair, gray eyes, dark hair and beard. He died 14 Aug 1886 and is buried at Muskego, Wisconsin. Sources: (&quot;The First Chapter of Norwegian Immigration&quot; by Rasmus B. Anderson. Publ. by the author at Madison, Wisconsin, 1906, p 360) (Naeseth &#146;47-166a) (&#147;History of the Norwegian People in America&#148; by O.M.Norlie, publ by Augsburg Publ. House, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1925, p 162) (Wisconsin Cemetery Records&#148;)