---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005045.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/j/joh/005045.html

oldid: 005045

title: JOHNSON, Tosten

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 5045
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - J 
  - JOH

previous:
  title: JOHNSON, Torgus
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005044.html  
next:
  title: JOHNSON, William
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005046.html   
---
MN Hv Arty 1st Reg Co D. Residence: Blackhammer Township, Houston County, Minnesota. Born 18 Jul 1834 at Vestre Slidre, Valders, Norway, the eighth child of Jorend Gjermundsdatter and John Anfinson Lommen. Apprenticed as a blacksmith. Came to America in 1851 with his brothers to Dane County, Wisconsin. Moved to Spring Grove, Minnesota. Married on 3 Mar 1860 to Thora Berquam Jesme (1837-1906). Civil War: Farmer. Age 30. Drilled a volunteer company of 75 men. He enrolled (possibly drafted) in 1864. Mustered 13 Oct 1864. Private. Mustered out 26 Jun 1865. &quot;Discharged at the close of the war without any wounds&quot;. Post war: Elected to the Minnesota legislature in 1869, said to be the first Norwegian in that body. Re-elected twice. Elected to the State Senate twice. Moved to Preston, Minnesota. Later moved to Climax, Minnesota, to live with his daughters, Mrs. N. Rosholt and Miss Jane Johnson. Died at Climax on 24 Apr 1914 at age 80. Buried in Blackhammer Cemetery near Spring Grove. Sources: (MCIW p621) (Ulvestad p299) (&quot;History of the Scandinavians in the United States&quot;, by O. N. Nelson. Publ. Minneapolis, 1893. p423,457) (Dolores Lee Barron, 2614 Cedar Crest Rd E, Minnetonka, Minnesota) &#147;Lommen, Tosten Johnson&#148; &#147;Johnson, Tore&#148; (Note: His daughter, Gertrude Johnson, married Norman Rosholt, banker at Rosholt, Wisconsin. Their daughter Thelma married Clifton Nobles on 1 Sep 1927.)