---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005032.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/j/joh/005032.html

oldid: 005032

title: JOHNSON, Thomas

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 5032
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - J 
  - JOH

previous:
  title: JOHNSON, Thomas
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005031.html  
next:
  title: JOHNSON, Thomas
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/005033.html   
---
MN 3rd Inf Co D. Residence: Dunkirk, Dane County, Wisconsin. Born &#147;Thomas Johnsen Lehnskjoldgrav&#148; on 27 Feb 1824 at Lensegrav in Drangedal, Telemark, Norway, to farmer Jon Halvorsen and Johanne Knudsdatter. He married Siri Einertsdatter Vraalstad on 26 Mar 1846, in Drangedal Parish, Norway. Siri was born 27 Jul 1823 in Tordal Parish, Drangedal, to farmer Einert of Wraalstad and Kari Pedersdatter. Thomas and Siri came to America in 1846 and settled at Koshkonong Prairie, Wisconsin. They had six children: Johanna Karine, born 4 Jan 1850; Elaine, born 14 Jul 1854 and who died 12 Jun 1908; Sivert (or Einert), born Feb 1858; Halvor, born Sep 1860; Andrea, born 26 Mar 1864; and John, born Feb 1866. Civil War: Age 37. Blue eyes, dark hair, dark complexion, 5&#146;10&frac12;&#148;. Enrolled for three years on 3 Oct 1861 at Fort Snelling, Minnesota. Mustered 4 Nov 1861 at Fort Snelling. Private. On 29 Mar 1862, at Nashville, Tennessee, he was discharged from the service for disability due to &#147;chronic rheumatism for which he has been frequently disabled for a few days at a time&#148;. Post war: His wife, Siri, was appointed her husband&#146;s guardian on 14 Oct 1897, he being judged a spendthrift. They lived at Fisher, Minnesota, at the time. Johnson died 14 May 1905 at Garfield, Polk County, Minnesota, of Bright&#146;s Disease. In January, 1906, when she was 82, Siri Johnson applied for and was granted a widow&#146;s pension of $12 a month. She died 12 Jun 1908. Sources: (MINN p137) (MCIW p185) (Ulvestad p306) (Certificate of Disability for Discharge) (Information from Pension papers, and from a descendant, Dr. Arthur G. Lensgraf, Nashville, Tennessee. Marriage and immigration dates may be in error, for Dr. Lensgraf has a letter written by Thomas Johnson Lensegrav, Dunkirk, Dane County, Wisconsin Territory, dated 20 Apr 1846, saying they had arrived in Milwaukee 24 Aug &#147;last year&#148;.) [Death may have been at Fisher, Minnesota, or at Fertile, Minnesota.]