---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004516.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/j/joh/004516.html

oldid: 004516

title: JOHNSON, George

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 4516
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - J 
  - JOH

previous:
  title: JOHNSON, George
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004515.html  
next:
  title: JOHNSON, George
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004517.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co G. Residence: Beloit, Rock County, Wisconsin. Born &#147;Guttorm Johnson Hovden&#148; in Krodsherad, Norway, 29 Apr 1831. Sometime following the deaths of his parents, he and an older brother came to America in 1852 and they settled at Long Prairie, Illinois. Civil War: Age 25. Unmarried. Enlisted for three years on 28 Sep 1861 at Beloit and mustered at Madison, Wisconsin, 13 Dec 1861. Assigned as Sergeant. Promoted to First Sergeant on 17 Jun 1863. On 28 Aug 1863, he was given a 30-day furlough from Mississippi River Island No. 10, and he traveled to Beloit, where he was reported sick on 1 Sep 1863. Mustered out 13 Jan 1865. Commissioned Second Lieutenant 25 Feb 1867, retroactive to 1 Oct 1862. He said that he was named Sergeant on his arrival in Camp Randall. He also said he received his officer&#146;s appointment in 1863, but was not given a commission at that time. He said he commanded Company G for 18 months, but was never paid for this. Post war: After the war, he took back his baptismal name, Guttorm, and his Norway farm name, Hovden. He became a well-to-do farmer in Ridgeway, Winneshiek County, Iowa, owning 400 acres. Married Ragne Snersrud. Ten children. He died 30 Jan 1902 of blood poisoning resulting from a sliver in a finger. Buried in Madison Churchyard near Ridgeway. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-9; red book vol 20 p98) (Buslett p525 photo) (DGA) (Ulvestad p296) (Ager p271 photo) (Gjertveit) (KJR) (Wisconsin Cemetery Records) &#147;Hovden, Guttorm&#148;