---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004963.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/j/joh/004963.html

oldid: 004963

title: JOHNSON, Osmund

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 4963
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - J 
  - JOH

previous:
  title: JOHNSON, Oscar
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004962.html  
next:
  title: JOHNSON, Otto J.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/joh/004964.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co K. Residence: Fillmore County, Minnesota. Born 23 Feb 1827 at Tvedt, &Aring;rdal, Rogaland, a son of Jan Eivindsson and Valborg Osmundsdatter. Married on 21 Apr 1854 at Finn&ouml;y Parish to Barbro Kjeldsdatter N&aring;de&ouml;en. They came to America soon after marrying and settled in Rock County, Illinois. In 1858, they moved to a farm in Holt Township, Fillmore County, Minnesota. Civil War: Age 34. Married. He enlisted for three years on 11 Feb 1862 in Fillmore County and mustered at Madison, Wisconsin, the same day(?). Private. Left behind sick at Mississippi River Island No. 10 on 11 Jun 1862. Sick in Bardstown, Kentucky, 7 Oct 1862. Taken prisoner at Stone&#39;s River, Tennessee, 31 Dec 1862. Held in Libby Prison at Richmond, Virginia. In March, 1863, he was exchanged and sent to a parole camp at St. Louis, Missouri. He later rejoined his company. He was reported missing in action on 20 Sep 1863 in the Battle of Chickamauga. He had been wounded in the back of his head and lay unconscious on the battle field. He was picked up by the Confederate forces and taken to Richmond, and sent from there to Danville, Virginia, on 12 Dec 1863. In Feb 1864, he was moved to Andersonville Prison. Starvation and scurvy put him in the prison hospital 6 Aug through 8 Sep 1864. Sent to Millen, Georgia, on 11 Nov 1864. He was released to Union authorities at Jacksonville, Florida, on 29 Apr 1865. On his discharge from the service at Madison, Wisconsin, 30 May 1865, he went back to his home in Minnesota, where everyone believed he had died in prison. He arrived home just in time to stop the wedding of his wife to a neighbor. It is said that Barbro did not recognize him, he was so emaciated. He weighed about 60 pounds and could not stand. Post war: On 15 Feb 1888, Osmund was awarded a pension of $12 a month. Osmund and Barbro farmed in Holt Township until 1900, then moved to the town of Whalen, Fillmore County. His pension eventually reached $24 a month. He died 1 Oct 1906, age 79, at the home of his son, John O. Johnson of Peterson, Fillmore County, Minnesota. His wife, Barbro, died 29 Jun 1908. Osmund Johnson was a brother of Knud Johnson of the Minnesota 1st Regiment of Artillery, Company B. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-12; red book vol 20 p144) (Buslett p631) (Ager p171, photo; p317) (1890 Veterans and Widows Census, Minnesota, No.123, roll 22) (Gjertveit) (Ulvestad p299) (Meeker).