---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/b/bro/001196.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/b/bro/001196.html

oldid: 001196

title: BROWN, Andrew A.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 1196
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - B 
  - BRO

previous:
  title: BROWN, Alexander L.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/b/bro/001195.html  
next:
  title: BROWN, Charles
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/b/bro/001197.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co H. Residence: Chicago, Illinois. Born &#147;Andreas Arnfinnsen Bryne&#148; at Bryne farm near Vossevangen, Norway, 27 Mar 1841. His father, Anfind Josepsen, came with his family to America in 1850. Anfind died the year after. Andrew (Andreas) began in his early teens to learn masonry. Attended Beloit College. Worked as an office clerk in a sawmill in Woodstock, Illinois. Civil War: Age 21. As soon as the war began, he tried to enlist for three months in the Wisconsin 3rd Infantry Regiment, but did not actually join because, it was said, he did not have his mother&#146;s permission. He tried again in Sep 1861 and this time he was accepted into the Wisconsin 15th Regiment as a Private. Mustered at Madison, Wisconsin, 14 Dec 1861. Commissioned First Lieutenant on 11 Feb 1862 with rank from 17 Jan 1862. Promoted to Captain at Murfreesboro, Tennessee, on 8 Jun 1863 with rank from 27 May 1863. Left behind at Chattanooga, Tennessee, 28 Nov 1863, because of illness. Wounded in an arm near Atlanta, Georgia, 21 Jul 1864. Mustered out with Company H at Chattanooga, 13 Feb 1865. Post war: Andrew Brown became a businessman in Northfield, Minnesota. Married to Christine. Five children. The 1890 Veterans Census shows him living in Alexandria, Minnesota. Said to have moved from Minnesota to Washington state in 1909. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-10; red book vol 20, p112) (Buslett p549; p550 photo) (Ager p269 photo; p308) (Ulvestad p253) (Quiner p613) (Gjertveit) (DCHS card file)