---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/e/ele/001765.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/e/ele/001765.html

oldid: 001765

title: ELECKSON, Nels

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 1765
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - E 
  - ELE

previous:
  title: EKLUND, Oscar W.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/e/ekl/001764.html  
next:
  title: ELEFSON, Halver
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/e/ele/001766.html   
---
WI 32nd Inf Co D. Residence: Winchester, Winnebago County, Wisconsin. Born 3 Jan 1833 in Numedal, Norway. Came to America in May 1860, sailing from Drammen with 300 other emigrants on the sailship &#147;Helvetia&#148;, landing in Quebec. Civil War: Age 29. Unmarried. Blue eyes, light hair, light complexion, 5&#146;4&#148;. Enlisted for three years on 21 Aug 1862 at Oshkosh, Wisconsin. Mustered there on 25 Sep 1862. Private. &#147;Has been in the Reg&#146;t since organization and participated in all its campaigns.&#148; In later years he said that he had been with General Sherman on his march from Atlanta to the sea and that he had been on the celebratory march through Washington DC. Mustered out with his company on 12 Jun 1865. Post war: In April 1866 he homesteaded 160 acres of land in North Fork Township, Stearns County, Minnesota, near Brooten. He married Gunhild Johnsdatter, an immigrant from Telemark, in August 1866. Two children. Gunhild died 6 Mar 1870 and Nils next married Mari Nilsdatter Tollefsrud, an immigrant from Hallingdal, in January 1876. Ten children. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 148-14; red book vol 37) (Granddaughter Lajla Hood, South Haven, Minnesota, quoting an article done by Gust Levorson, North Fork Township, which appears to be a translation of a brief autobiography written by Nils Hellickson.) (&#147;Civil War Veterans of Winnebago County, Wisconsin&#148; by David A. Langkau) (Ulvestad p291) &#147;Hellickson, Nils&#148;