---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/s/swe/010067.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/s/swe/010067.html

oldid: 010067

title: SWENSON, Erik B.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 10067
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - S 
  - SWE

previous:
  title: SWENSON, Emanuel
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/swe/010066.html  
next:
  title: SWENSON, Erasmus
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/swe/010068.html   
---
TX 30th Cav Co C. CSA. Residence: Bosque County, Texas. Born &#147;Erik Bersvendsen&#148; on 5 Feb 1841 at Lillehogstad, Tynset, Hedemarken, Norway. Came to America with his parents, four brothers and a sister in 1851. Norwegian name Bersvendsen changed to Swenson. He carried mail between Fort Worth and Gatesville for a year. Civil War: Age 21. Enlisted for three years or the war on 1 Jul 1862 at Waco, Texas. Mustered at 1 Aug 1862 at Camp McCullock, Texas. Private. The 30th Regiment, Texas Cavalry, was also known as the 1st Regiment Texas Partisan Rangers and as Gurley&#146;s Regiment. It was organized 18 Aug 1862 with ten companies, A to K. Once riding as a messenger, he was chased by six Yankee soldiers. He hid in a dense thicket, commanding his horse to lay down, until it became safe to travel. He reached his own unit in time to warn them that a Yankee force was near. Post war: He married Martha Questad. Five children. Swenson died in Norse, Texas, on 16 Jan 1926 and is buried in Our Savior&#146;s Lutheran churchyard at Norse. (One record shows his death as 19 Dec 1890.) His widow, Martha, died in 1936. Sources: (&quot;Norwegian Soldiers in Confederate Forces&quot; by C.A.Clausen &amp;amp; Derwood Johnson, publ. in Norwegian-American Studies, volume 25, Northfield, Minnesota. p115) (Regimental records, National Archives, copies furnished by Maurice Jenson, Stillwater, Minnesota) (Ulvestad p332) (www.borgerkrigen.info)