---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/l/lar/005886.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/l/lar/005886.html

oldid: 005886

title: LARSON, Torry

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 5886
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - L 
  - LAR

previous:
  title: LARSON, Torger
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/l/lar/005885.html  
next:
  title: LARSON, Torsten
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/l/lar/005887.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co F. Residence: Manitowoc, Manitowoc County, Wisconsin. Born 28 Sep 1836 at Gjerpen near Skien, Telemark, Norway, son of Lars Larsen Svarttangen and Ingeborg Gurine Thorsdatter Ballestad. He came to America with his parents and five siblings on &#147;Bowditch&#148;, which sailed from Havre, France, and reached New York on 8 Aug 1846. They went first to Pine Lake, Waukesha County, Wisconsin. By 1850, they had moved to Newton Township, Manitowoc County, and by 1860, they were in Manitowoc Rapids, Manitowoc County. Civil War: Unmarried. Age 25. Enlisted for three years on 21 Oct 1861 at Manitowoc and mustered 12 Dec 1861 at Madison, Wisconsin. Private. Designated Company wagon master. Left behind with supply train from Stevenson, Alabama, in October 1863. Sick in Chattanooga, Tennessee, 11 Nov 1863. Mustered out with Company on 13 Jan 1865 at Chattanooga. &#147;Was named a Brevet (Honorary) Captain on 4 Apr 1867 with rank from 19 Sep 1863 in recognition of bravery he displayed in the battle of Chickamauga. When his unit was forced to fall back he helped one of the Regiment&#146;s officers, who had been wounded and was in danger of falling into the hands of the Rebels, safely out of the fray of the battle at a time when most men found they had more than enough to do taking care of themselves.&#148; Post war: He moved in 1868 to Ben Wade Township, Pope County, Minnesota. Served as County Commissioner and as Treasurer. On 23 May 1870, he married Ragnild Johannesdatter (1844-1912). Eight children. In 1902, they moved to Walla Walla, Washington. He died 26 Aug 1926 in Ortin, Washington. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-8; red book vol 20 p88) (Buslett p509) (Ager p307) (Naeseth &#146;46-650) (Meeker) &#147;Larsen, Thor&#148;