---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009842.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/s/ste/009842.html

oldid: 009842

title: STEEN, Charles A.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 9842
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - S 
  - STE

previous:
  title: STEEN, Carl
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009841.html  
next:
  title: STEEN, Conrad
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009843.html   
---
MN 1st Inf Co A. Residence: Decorah, Winneshiek County, Iowa. Born 20 Aug 1836 (Birth date on cemetery stone is &#147;30 Aug&#148;) near Oslo, Norway, son of Throne and Ingeborg (Terptad) Steen, who settled in Glenwood Township, east of Decorah. He was one of six Steen brothers to serve in the Civil war. Charles had been working in St. Paul before the war, working for Minnesota Governor Ramsey. Civil War: Charles Steen enlisted for three years on 12 Apr 1861, on the first day enlistments were accepted in Minnesota. Age 26. Mustered as Private at Fort Snelling, Minnesota, 29 Apr 1861. Advanced to Corporal, Sergeant and then First Sergeant. Took part in the battles of Bull Run, Virginia, Jul 1861; Marvin Hill, Fair Oaks and Seven Pines, Virginia; Antietam, Maryland, Sep 1862; Fredericksburg, Virginia, Dec 1862; Chancellorsville and Spottsylvania, Virginia, 1863; and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. He was wounded in the Battle of Gettysburg, 2 Jul 1863, a minie ball through his left thigh. His leg was amputated in a hospital at Gettysburg. He was discharged from the service 3 May 1864. Post war: Married Karen &#147;Carrie&#148; M. Paulson (17 Aug 1843-23 Oct 1925) on 21 Mar 1867 at Decorah. Two children. He became Winneshiek County, Iowa, Recorder, serving from 1874 until 1877 when he died. His death was due to his war wound never having fully healed. Died 31 Jul 1877 at Decorah. Buried at Decorah Lutheran Cemetery. Sources: (MINN p20) (MCIW p51) (DGA) (Ulvestad p261) (&#147;History of the Steen Family&#148; by Orlando C. Scholl, publ. 1964) (&#147;Past and Present of Winneshiek County, Iowa&#148; by Edwin C. Bailey, publ. Chicago 1913, Vol I, p312) (KJR).