---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009856.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/s/ste/009856.html

oldid: 009856

title: STEEN, Theodore

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 9856
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - S 
  - STE

previous:
  title: STEEN, T. P.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009855.html  
next:
  title: STEEN, Theron H.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009857.html   
---
IA 12th Inf Co G. Residence: Decorah, Winneshiek County, Iowa. Born 20 Nov 1838 near Oslo, Norway. Theodore was one of the six Civil War sons of Throne and Ingeborg (Terptad) Steen of Glenwood Township, east of Decorah, Iowa. Civil War: Age 23. Enlisted 21 Oct 1861. Mustered 5 Nov 1861 at Dubuque as a Corporal. Took part in the capture of Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, Tennessee, in Feb 1862. Missing in battle 6 Apr 1862, Shiloh, Tennessee. He had been captured by Rebel forces and sent to Libby Prison, Richmond, Virginia. He was paroled 28 May 1862. Was released from parole on 31 Oct 1862. Was back on the company rolls November 1862, listed as &quot;absent sick&quot;. As of January 1863, he was listed as present and on duty. Took part in the siege of Vicksburg, Mississippi; the capture of Jackson, Mississippi, Aug 1863; and the campaign for Meridian, Mississippi, in Nov 1863. Re-enlisted as a Veteran Volunteer 25 Dec 1863. Took part in the battle of Tupelo, Mississippi, 13-15 Jul 1864, and the battle of Nashville, Tennessee, 14-15 Dec 1864. Was in the battle for Spanish Fort, Alabama, 12 Apr 1865. Promoted Sergeant 1 Mar 1865; Mustered out 20 Jan 1866, at Memphis, Tennessee. Post war: Married Ellena Suckow on 28 May 1866 at Fort Dodge, Iowa. Two children. Lived in Buena Vista county, Iowa; then moved to Nebraska. Died 28 Sep 1880 at Omaha, Nebraska. Buried in Greenwood Cemetery, Wahoo, Nebraska. Sources: (ISW-II p531) (Ulvestad p261) (DGA) (&#147;Steen Family History&#148; by Orlando C. Scholl, publ. 1964)