---
published: true
#all_day: false # If true, ignore times?
dt_start: 2015-07-25 15:00:00 # datetime the event starts
dt_end: 2015-07-25 16:00:00 # datetime the event ends
title: Sister Music Group # event name (or title)
meta_title:        # Appears on bookmarks, search results, etc...
meta_description:  # Used in HTML head and as the description for some search engines
# Ratio: 16:9 | Recommended: 1492px by 840px | Minimum: 746px by 420px
hero:
  image:
  alt: 
  caption:
related:

# iCal or h-event related stuff
event_summary: # short summary of the event
event_description: # more detailed description of the event
event_location: # if location in data file, provide details, else simply this.

# todo: allow to specify url/place to link to instead or use redirect? Thinking for special exihibits or regular events
# todo: option to Exclude Link to Event Item?
# need option for when museum is closed. Show no events.
# todo: need option to group dates or times for Barnetimin or Dag talks during Nordic Fest?

home:
  display: false
pagelist:
  order:         # Defaults to navigation order
  image: 
  alt:
  caption: 
  title:         # Defaults to navigation title
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:        # Defaults to page meta-description

tags:   
---
“Sister,” the music trio of Kjersten Dysthe, Alisa Leonard, and Kara Millerhagen from Minnesota, brings positive energy, laughter, great music, and motivating messages to every show. 

We are excited to have them perform in Decorah during Nordic Fest—Friday and Saturday, 3:00 p.m. in Decorah's Carrie Lee School Auditorium. The “Sister” concert is sponsored by Vesterheim, supported with a grant from the Iowa Tourism Office.

“Sister” celebrates Norwegian heritage just as the band members were taught—invite the neighbors, sing from the bottom of your lungs, laugh from the bottom of your belly, and give from the bottom of your heart! Putting all of that energy into their performance makes the audience feel like part of the family. 

This trio had its beginnings on a small farm near Hanska, Minnesota, where they were “The Norvold Sisters.”  Singing in churches and learning classic three-part harmonies for performances at the local _Syttende Mai_ celebration gave them the roots that would later develop into their signature sound, which features their distinct harmony stack. Their vast repertoire includes standards, popular music, original compositions, Gospel classics, and a fun-filled Norwegian segment, which makes Sister second-to-none in variety. The trio creates all of their own arrangements from the perspective of Alisa, who is their lead vocalist, making them first-in-line for originality.  

Family has played a huge role in the performance life of “Sister” and many musicians, singers, and performers have blossomed in the family tree. Uncles Ron and Rolfe Johnstad of the Luther College Norseman Quartet have often said, “We’ve taught them everything they know!” Experience “Sister” and be part of the family! 