---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/j/jue/005123.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/j/jue/005123.html

oldid: 005123

title: JUELSON, Hans

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 5123
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - J 
  - JUE

previous:
  title: JORUNDLIE, Hans
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/jor/005122.html  
next:
  title: JULSON, Edwin
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/j/jul/005124.html   
---
MN 10th Inf Co C. Residence: Highland, Wabashaw County, Minnesota. Born 22 Feb 1837 in Sondre Aurdal, Valdres, Norway, to Juel and Mary (Oleson) Helgesen. Came to America with his parents in 1850 to Wisconsin. Moved to Minnesota in 1858. Civil War: Age 25. Enrolled 15 Aug 1862. Mustered 15 Nov 1862. Private. Served until end of the war. Fought against Indians from the outbreak of the Civil War until 1863, at which time his regiment went south to take part in the battles of Tupelo, Nashville, Spanish Fort and others. Discharged from the service with his company, 19 Aug 1865. Post war: Married Jennie Nelson in 1865 shortly before his discharge. They had three children, Mary, Julia and Nels. After the war, this family settled in Otter Tail County, Minnesota. Jennie Nelson died in 1871 in Otter Tail county and Juelson married in 1872 to Ellen Iverson. They moved to Sundahl township in Norman County. They had seven children: Sam, Carl, John, Clara, Emma, Hannah and Nora. Juelson was elected to the Minnesota legislature in 1892. Juelson died in 1905 in Fertile, Minnesota, and is buried there. Sources: (MINN p467) (MCIW p476) (&quot;History of the Scandinavians in the United States&quot;, by O. N. Nelson. Publ. Minneapolis, 1893. p458) (Ulvestad p299) (Otter Tail County Historical Society) (e-mail, Jeen M. Ruff [jmbr43@uslink.net](mailto:jmbr43@uslink.net) quoting &#147;Northern County, Minnesota, History Book, p1023&#148;)