---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009844.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/s/ste/009844.html

oldid: 009844

title: STEEN, Henry

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 9844
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - S 
  - STE

previous:
  title: STEEN, Conrad
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009843.html  
next:
  title: STEEN, John
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ste/009845.html   
---
IA 12th Inf Co G. Residence: Decorah, Winneshiek County, Iowa. Born 20 Sep 1843 near Oslo, Norway, one of the six Civil War sons of Throne and Ingeborg (Terptad) Steen of Glenwood Township, east of Decorah, Iowa. Came to America in 1853. Civil War: Age 18. He enlisted for three years on 21 Oct 1861. Mustered 5 Nov 1861 at Dubuque, Iowa. Private. The 12th Iowa was part of the 15th and 16th Army Corps of the Army of Tennessee. Steen took part in battles for Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, Feb 1862. Missing in battle of Shiloh, Tennessee, on 6 Apr 1862 and captured by Rebel forces. He was sent to Libby prison in Richmond, Virginia. Paroled 28 May 1862. Was back with his company by 31 Aug 1862. Took part in the siege of Vicksburg, Mississippi, Jul 1863, and the capture of Jackson, Mississippi, Aug 1863. Re-enlisted as a Veteran Volunteer 25 Dec 1863 and re-mustered 5 Jan 1864. Promoted to Corporal 11 Feb 1864. Fought in the battles of Nashville, Tennessee, 13-14 Dec 1864; Spanish Fort, Alabama, 12 Apr 1865 Fort Blakeley, Alabama, and the capture of Mobile, Alabama. Mustered out 20 Jan 1866, at Memphis, Tennessee. Post war: He married Mrs. Inger Admundson (Chilson?) on 17 May 1866 at Decorah. Five children. Inger died 7 Jan 1882. Henry became a merchant in Oakland, Nebraska. He married Emma Lucille Sprauge on 15 Sep 1885 at Golden Spring, Nebraska. Two children. Later, he moved to Manassas, Virginia, where he worked as a guard at the Mannassas National Battlefield Park. From there, he moved to the state of Washington. In 1925, he entered the Soldier&#146;s Home in Retsil, Washington. Died aged 94 on 21 Mar 1938 at Retsil. Buried in Old Soldiers Cemetery at Retsil. Sources: (ISW-II p531) (&#148;Steen Family History&#148; by Orlando C. Scholl, publ. 1964) (DGA obituaries) (Winneshiek County Marriage Records)