---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/o/ols/007983.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/o/ols/007983.html

oldid: 007983

title: OLSON, Even E.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 7983
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - O 
  - OLS

previous:
  title: OLSON, Even
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/o/ols/007982.html  
next:
  title: OLSON, Ever
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/o/ols/007984.html   
---
WI 28th Inf Co C. Residence: Oconomowoc, Waukesha County, Wisconsin. Born &#147;Even Olsen Hole&#148; in Gausdal, Gulbrandsdalen, Oppland, Norway, on 22 Nov 1832 to Ole Torgerson Hoele and Anne Ellefsdatter Langseth. His father died in 1841; his mother remarried to Johan Olsen Hole. Even came to America with his mother and step-father in 1848 on the ship &#147;Erek Boreson&#148; to New York. They came to Ashippun, Dodge County, Wisconsin. Civil War: Clerk. Married. Age 30. Blue eyes, light hair, light complexion, 5&#146;11&#148;, stout build. Enlisted for three years on 12 Aug 1862 at Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. Mustered 13 Oct 1862 at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Sergeant. The 28th was in the Battle of Helena, Arkansas; the capture of Little Rock, Arkansas; and in the captures of Spanish Fort and Blakely, both near Mobile, Alabama. Family stories tell of his having to drink water from puddles and sleep on wet ground during the war and that he became ill. Discharged from the service 23 Jul 1865 at Clarksville, Texas, for physical disability. Post war: His first wife, Ann K. Oleson, died 29 Dec 1865. He married Berte Marie Pedersdatter in Jun 1869. They had five children. Even Olson worked as a dry goods merchant in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. He died 25 Sep 1879 and is buried in Bell Cemetery, Oconomowoc. Berte filed for a widow&#146;s pension. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 132-5,14; red book vol 33) (Naeseth &#146;48-1824) (Discharge certificate, regimental history, and letter from Carol Steger, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin) &#147;Olsen, Even&#148;