---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/003018.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/h/hal/003018.html

oldid: 003018

title: HALVORSON, Peter B.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 3018
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - H 
  - HAL

previous:
  title: HALVORSON, Osmer
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/003017.html  
next:
  title: HALVORSON, Rufus
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/h/hal/003019.html   
---
IA 3rd Inf Co D. Residence: Frankville, Glenwood Township, near Decorah, Winneshiek County, Iowa. &#147;Peter Baard Halversen&#148; was born 8 Jul 1841 in L&aelig;rdal, Sogn, Norway, to Baard Halversen and wife. He came to America in August, 10th, year uncertain. Civil War: Age 19. Blue eyes, light hair, light complexion, 5&#146;9&#148;. Enlisted 20 May 1861. Mustered 8 Jun 1861. Private. On Aug 31, 1861, he was on detached service to Brigade headquarters to serve as guard. Sick in hospital at Quincy, Illinois, by 31 Oct 1861. Wounded in the Battle of Shiloh on 6 Apr 1862, suffering a severe wound in his right thigh. He was sent to hospital at St. Louis, Missouri, and was there until the following spring. On 13 Jul 1862, he was a nurse in Keokuk Military hospital. From mid-July to end of August, 1862, he was a cook at the Keokuk hospital. February 1863, he was still at the hospital at Keokuk, assigned as a nurse. Re-enlisted 4 Jan 1864 as a Veteran Volunteer. Re-mustered 2 Feb 1864, and assigned to Company C 3rd Regiment Iowa Cavalry. On 22 Jul 1864, he was listed as wounded at Marietta, Georgia, suffering a wound in his right thigh slightly above his first wound. Returned to duty on 23 Feb 1865, and was stationed at Fort Wood, Bedloe&#39;s Island, New York Harbor. Transferred into Company I, 2nd &amp;amp; 3rd Veteran Infantry Consolidated from Company C, 3rd Battalion. Was with General Sherman on his &quot;march to the sea&quot;. Mustered out 13 Jul 1865 at Georgetown, near Washington DC. Post war: He became a farmer near Decorah, Winneshiek County Iowa. Married Anna Skeim [1847-1931] on 8 Dec 1865. They had ten children. Halvorson died of stomach cancer 10 Aug 1923. Buried in Decorah, Iowa, Lutheran Cemetery. Sources: (Some details from Company Muster Rolls, National Archives) (ISW-I p 419,478) (Obituary, Decorah Republican, 16 Aug 1923.) (XSS Iowa IOWA p236) (Sally Leibold, &#147;Winneshiek County Biographies&#148;, publ. 1996 by the Decorah Genealogy Assoc. p552.) (Ulvestad p286) (DGA) (Naeseth&#146;s Cemetery Transcriptions) (KJR) (Wisconsin Cemetery Records) (Hedberg) (Decorah Republican, 27 Jul 1865) &#147;Holverson, Peter B.&#148; &#147;Halverson, Peter B.&#148; &#147;Halversen, Baard&#148; &#147;Skeim, Peter&#148;