---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/e/eri/001980.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/e/eri/001980.html

oldid: 001980

title: ERICKSON, Ellend

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 1980
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - E 
  - ERI

previous:
  title: ERICKSON, Elias
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/e/eri/001979.html  
next:
  title: ERICKSON, Engbrit
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/e/eri/001981.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co K. Residence: Bath Township, Freeborn County, Minnesota. Born on Farm Trytten, Vik parish, Bergens Clerical District, Hordaland, Norway, 7 Oct 1835. Came with his parents to America in July 1854. Lived first in Chicago, Illinois; then came to Albert Lea, Freeborn County, in 1860 and became a farmer. Married on 27 Mar 1860 to Betsey Jacobson. Civil War: Age 26. Enlisted for three years on 22 Nov 1861 and mustered at Madison, Wisconsin. Assigned as Corporal 1 Feb 1862, promoted to Sergeant 1 May 1862. He said that he had been treated for typhoid fever while at Mississippi River Island No. 10. Commissioned Second Lieutenant at Murfreesboro, Tennessee, on 9 Jun 1863 with rank from 27 May 1863. Wounded at Chickamauga, 20 Sep 1863. Was with the provisions transport from Stevenson, Alabama, in October 1863. Taken prisoner at New Hope Church, Georgia, 27 May 1864. Exchanged on 29 Sep 1864. Promoted to First Lieutenant 10 Nov 1864. On sick leave 11 Nov 1864. Mustered out with K Company, 10 Feb 1865, at Chattanooga, Tennessee. Mustered out as Second Lieutenant. He is entered on the Roll of Honor for the 2nd Brigade, 1st Division, 20th Army Corps. Post war: He returned to his farm near Albert Lea. He and his wife Betsey had ten children. He was elected to the Minnesota legislature in 1889. He died 25 Jun 1912 in Albert Lea and is buried in Lakewood Cemetery. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-12; red book vol 20 p140) (Buslett p616) (Ulvestad p257) (Ager p217, photo; p316) (Quiner p 625) (Gjertveit) (&quot;History of the Scandinavians in the United States&quot;, by O. N. Nelson. Publ. Minneapolis, 1893. p327) (FCHS - Albert Lea GAR records) (Obituary with Albert Lea GAR records).