---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/k/knu/005397.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/k/knu/005397.html

oldid: 005397

title: KNUDSON, Henry

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 5397
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - K 
  - KNU

previous:
  title: KNUDSON, Hawkins
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/k/knu/005396.html  
next:
  title: KNUDSON, Ingebret
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/k/knu/005398.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co E. Residence: Moscow, Iowa County, Wisconsin. Born at Klevegaard, North Aurdal, Valders, Norway, on 26 Sep 1843. Came to America with his parents in 1853. Civil War: Age 19. Unmarried. Enlisted for three years on 2 Dec 1861 in Iowa County. Mustered 8 Dec 1861 at Madison, Wisconsin. Private. Took part in all E Company&#146;s skirmishes during the time he was with it. Discharged from the Company at Edgefield, Tennessee, on 24 Nov 1862 so he could enlist in 4th Regiment, U. S. Cavalry. Assigned to Company K. Served as a bodyguard for General Rosecrans, and as an orderly for General Otis. He was at the Battle of Stone&#146;s River, during which his unit, the 4th Cavalry, saved the Army&#146;s ammunition train. Was wounded, shot through his right lung on 19 Feb 1863 during a skirmish between Auburn and Liberty, about 29 miles from Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Became unfit for service and was discharged on 18 Jul 1863. Post war: Moved to Goodhue County, Minnesota, where he operated a farm, a wheat business and was also a store clerk in Red Wing. Moved to Jackson County, Minnesota, in 1870, and became deputy sheriff in 1871 and Sheriff in 1872. Granted a pension of $12 a month because of a gun shot wound to his chest, which resulted in disability of his lungs. From 1874 to 1878, he was Jackson County Treasurer, then became a Judge of Probate, serving until 1891. Other positions he held were as Chairman of the County Board of Supervisors, Justice of the Peace, Postmaster in Lakefield, and a town alderman, judge and town clerk in Heron Lake, Minnesota. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-7; red book vol 20 p76) (TAR) (Buslett p485) (Ager p189, photo; p304) (Ulvestad p302) (Pensioners on the Roll as of January 1, 1883, living in Minnesota, publ. 1994, Park Genealogical Books, Brooklyn Park, Minnesota) &#147;Klevegaard, Henry&#148;