---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ska/009603.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/s/ska/009603.html

oldid: 009603

title: SKARO, Asgrim K.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 9603
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - S 
  - SKA

previous:
  title: SKARISON, Mathias
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ska/009602.html  
next:
  title: SKARRIE, Evan
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/s/ska/009604.html   
---
MN 9th Inf Co D. Residence: St Peter, Minnesota. Born in Hol, Hallingdal, Buskerud, Norway, 4 Jun 1829 (or 2 Jul 1828), son of Knud Ellingsen Skaro and Guro Eriksdatter. Came to America at age 19 on the &#147;Tricolor&#148;, which sailed from Christiania and reached New York on 25 Jul 1846. During the Mexican War, he was a private in the Army at Fort Snelling, Minnesota, from 1847 to 1852. In 1852, he went to what is now St. Peter, Minnesota, and staked a claim to land. He began living on it the following year. On 15 Sep 1857 he married Theodora Laumann. In July, 1858, about 50 young men organized a military company called &#147;The St. Peter Guards&#148; with Skaro as its captain. Civil War: In June 1861, the company was ordered to Fort Snelling to become MN 2nd Inf Co E. Captain Skaro led his men in actions against the Sioux, from 5 Jul 1861 until 20 Mar 1862, at which time he resigned because of illness. On 31 Aug 1862, Skaro enlisted again and was assigned to MN 9th Inf Co D. Killed while leading a charge in a battle near Nashville, Tennessee, 16 Dec 1864, a bullet through his right breast. Buried in Green Hill cemetery at St. Peter, Minnesota. Sources: (Lonn p261) (Ulvestad p256) (Naeseth &#146;46-555) (&#147;History of the Scandinavians in the United States&#148; by O. N. Nelson, publ. in Minneapolis, 1893, p488) (&#147;Asgrim K. Skaro&#148;, by Lawrence Molsather, a research paper; copy furnished by his son, Lawrence R. Molsather, Orono, Minnesota)