---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/c/cha/001318.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/c/cha/001318.html

oldid: 001318

title: CHANTLAND, Peter W.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 1318
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - C 
  - CHA

previous:
  title: CHANTLAND, K.
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/c/cha/001317.html  
next:
  title: CHANTLAND, Thomas
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/c/cha/001319.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co E. Residence: Primrose, Dane County, Wisconsin. Born on farm Tjentland in Aardals Anneks, Hjelmeland Gjaeld, Norway, on 11 Oct 1840. Came to USA with his parents in 1853. On his father&#146;s first land deed, the family surname was written &#147;Chantland&#148;, and the family accepted the change. Civil War: Age 22. Unmarried. Enlisted 1 Nov 1861. Mustered 8 Dec 1861 at Madison, Wisconsin. Named Sergeant. Left sick in hospital at Bowling Green, Kentucky, on 6 Oct 1862. During the battle of Stone&#146;s River, the company commander, Captain Ingmundson was killed and the Lieutenant was wounded, so command of the company fell to Sergeant Chantland. He was entered on the Roll of Honor as a result, the first man from this Company to be so named. Promoted to First Sergeant. Commissioned Second Lieutenant on 26 Apr 1863 at Murfreesboro, Tennessee. After the battle of Chickamauga, 24 Sep 1863, he was appointed brigade commissary for the 3rd Brigade, 1st Division, 20th Army Corps. His health deteriorated and he resigned 11 Nov 1863, but there was no transport north at the time and he had to stay with his Company and so he took part in battles until after the battle of Missionary Ridge, when it became possible for him to leave. Post war: He was suffering from diarrhea and it took four months for his parents to nurse him back to health. In Sept 1864, he moved to Fort Dodge, Iowa, where on 20 Sep 1864, he registered the first land deed recorded by a Norwegian in Webster County. While continuing to operate his farm, he also started a hotel in Fort Dodge. Chantland was married in 1869 to Julia L. Skaalen of New Ark, Rock County, Wisconsin. They had a son. In 1872, his wife died and he sold the hotel and started a farm machinery business. In 1875, he married again, to Amea Hatlestad of Rock County, Wisconsin. Also in 1875 he was elected Sheriff of Webster County; re-elected in 1877. He did not run in 1879, but was elected Sheriff again in 1881 and 1883. In 1886, he was living in Fort Dodge, Iowa. Died there in 1905. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-7; red book vol 20 p70) (TAR) (Buslett p467, p468 photo) (Ulvestad p257) (Ager p186 photo; p303) (XSS Iowa p705).