---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/t/tan/010162.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/t/tan/010162.html

oldid: 010162

title: TANBERG, Christian E.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 10162
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - T 
  - TAN

previous:
  title: TAMSON, Louis
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/t/tam/010161.html  
next:
  title: TANDE, Ole
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/t/tan/010163.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co D. Residence: Oconomowoc, Waukesha County, Wisconsin. Civil War: Age 32. Married. Enlisted for three years on 14 Jan 1862 at Oconomowoc. Commissioned Second Lieutenant on 15 Jan 1862, effective from the day before. Mustered 13 Feb 1862 at Madison, Wisconsin. On detached service at Bird&#146;s Point, Missouri, from 14 Mar to 31 Mar 1862. Given leave for 20 days starting on 14 May 1862. By 1 Jul 1862, he was absent without leave. Found to be sick at home in Oconomowoc. Was said to have taken part in battles of Island No. 10, Union City, Tenn; Perryville, Knob Gap, Stone&#146;s River, Missionary Ridge, Orchard Knob Charleston, East Tennessee, Rocky Face Ridge, Resaca, Dallas, Pine Mountain, Lost Mountain, Kenesa Mountain, Atlanta and Jonesboro. Wounded in the battle of Stone&#146;s River, wounded in his forehead by a minnie ball, left on the field for dead and taken prisoner at the battle of Stone&#146;s River on 31 Dec 1862. Sent to Atlanta as a prisoner of war. Exchanged. Sent back into service on 24 Apr 1863. Commissioned First Lieutenant 3 Jun 1863 with rank from 27 May. On leave during August 1863, and overstayed his leave. Wounded in his left hand in the battle of Chickamauga, Georgia, on 19 Sep 1863, and sent to hospital. Resigned on 30 Oct 1863 because he had become unfit for service. Post war: Granted a pension of $3.75 per month because of the wound to his left hand. Had eleven children. Was elected Register of Deeds of Green County in 1872. Lived in Janesville, Wisconsin. Lived in Northwood, North Dakota. Died at age 82. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 boxes 76-6, 78-3; red book vol 20 p56) (Buslett p435; p436 photo) (Ulvestad p258) (Ager p73 photo; p300) (Meeker) (Beverly Olson, Grand Forks, North Dakota [smorbukkmyk@hotmail.com](mailto:smorbukkmyk@hotmail.com)) (&#147;Pensioners on the Roll as of January 1, 1883 (living in Wisconsin)&#148;, Park Genealogical Books, Roseville, Minnesota publ. 1998.) &#147;Tandberg, Christian&#148;