---
published: true

permalink: /collections/civil-war-database/u/urn/010939.html
oldlink: /CivilWar/db/u/urn/010939.html

oldid: 010939

title: URNESS, Anders J.

pagelist:
  exclude: false
  order: 10939
  image: 
  alt:
  caption:
  title:
  subtitle:      # Defaults to page subtitle
  teaser:

category: 
  - U 
  - URN

previous:
  title: UREVIG, Ole
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/u/ure/010938.html  
next:
  title: URNESS, Johannes
  url: /collections/civil-war-database/u/urn/010940.html   
---
WI 15th Inf Co B. Residence: Black Earth, Vermont Township, Dane County, Wisconsin. Born about 1837 in Sogn, Norway. Civil War: Age 24. Unmarried. Enlisted for three years on 28 Oct 1861 at Madison, Wisconsin, and mustered there on 16 Nov 1861. Corporal. Was regimental flag-bearer. Promoted to Sergeant. Wounded in his chest in the Battle of Chickamauga, Georgia, 19 Sep 1863, and sent to hospital. Detached for recruiting duty on 20th, 21st and 22nd of Nov 1863. Mustered out with B Company, 2 Dec 1864, at Chattanooga, Tennessee. In 1868, at Holmes City, Douglas County, Minnesota, he married Antonette Jacobson, who had been born in Hedemark, Norway, on 17 Sep 1845. In 1893, he was living in Urness Township, Douglas County, Minnesota. In 1896, he and his wife moved to Alexandria, Minnesota. He died there in 1901, killed himself using an old revolver he had brought home from the war. He was buried in West Moe Cemetery. His obituary says he was one of four brothers who served in this same Company B of the 15th. Ager writes that there were three brothers, Anders, Ole and Peter. Sources: (WHS Series 1200 box 76-4; red book vol 20 p36) (Buslett p399) (Ulvestad p261) (Ager p199, photo; p297) (Gjertveit) (Meeker) (&#147;Urness Clan&#148;, by Eunice Urness Sondrol, Buxton ND) (DCHS 1890 Veteran Census card file: Item in Brandon Echo, 4 Jul 1901, p1, tells of &#147;veteran wounded&#148;.) (Federal 1890 Veterans and Widows Census shows him living in Urness Township, Douglas County, Minnesota.) (Obituary, Alexandria Citizen, 4 Jul 1901; p 1 col 6) &#147;Urness, Andrew&#148; &#147;Urn&aelig;s, Andrew&#148;